EECS 598-010: Interactive Robot Manipulators
Resarch Paper Review

Title: Localizing Handle-Like Grasp Affordances in 3D Point Clouds
Authors: Andreas ten Pas and Robert Platt
Publication Venue: ISRR, 2014

Reviewer: Jiatao Fan
Presentation Date: November 9th, 2015

In this paper, the authors' novel contribution is that they come up with a new
approach to find object geometries that can be grasped by a particular robot hand
via searching through a 3-D point cloud for neighborhoods that satisfy conditions
for existence of a grasp affordance. The goal of this approach only localizes 
parts of objects rather than the entire object to find types of grasp affordances 
quickly and reliably. First, the approach randomly samples spherical point 
neighborhoods approximately two or three cm in radius. It fits an implicit 
polynomial surface, which can be represented by a quadratic function, to each 
of these point neighborhoods with the least squares algebraic fit in Taubin 
normalization. Next, it obtains an accurate measurement of the magnitudes and axes 
of principal surface curvature in the point neighborhoods and projects the 
point neighborhoods onto a plane orthogonal to the axis of minor principal 
curvature. Then, based on the center of a fitted circle to the projected points, 
the method constructs a cylindrical shell to enclose the object surface. 
The "gap" between of the inner and the outer surface of the shell is to accommodate 
the "thumb and fingers" of robot hand. Apart from the algorithm, the authors 
also present experiment results to demonstrate the robustness of their approach in 
signle-object scenarios and show the time consumption of each procedure. At last, 
through experimental data, the authors also illustrate that sequential importance
sampling with maximum value is the most efficient one. 

In my point of view, the authors clearly explain the process to approximate the 
object suface and construct enveloping grasp affordance. The algorithm is very
efficient and runs in real time: only takes 1.7 seconds to execute with 20,000 
sample neighborhoods. The method has high robustness and was strenthened by the 
authors from many aspects. For example, the authors raise an effective method 
to overcome the problem that some reflective object sufaces are hard for the 
range sensor to perceive. It searches for sets of enveloping grasp affordances 
that form "handles", or in other word, sets of affordances that are roughly 
aligned and that cover some minimum length. This helps reduce the number of false 
positives and increases the precision of the affordances. Besides, the algorithm's 
precision is also enhanced by the sequential importance sampling method that 
samples a fixed number of point neighborhoods in a series of rounds.

The brute-force search for handles occupied the most of the total running time,
so as the authors indicate, possible future direction for this work may be finding 
a closed-form approximation to the brute-force search that would reduce running time.
Besides, in the single-object experiments, nearly all grasp failures were because 
of depth measurement errors or because of insufficient point density on object 
surfaces in the neighborhood of the false positive. Therefore, I think another 
possible future job is to figure out how to improve the accuracy of depth measurement 
and do upsamling uniformly around the area with insufficient point density.
